When we learned about C++ functions we learned that we can supply default values as parameters to functions.
The same applies to class methods in class constructors.
In many cases we can reduce the number of overloaded constructors by providing default constructor parameters.
The same rules that we learned when working with default function parameters apply to constructors.
Let's continue working with our player class.
We can actually just have one constructor that does everything that we did with the three constructors
previously.
You can't always have default parameters in class design but many times you can.
Here's an example where it makes perfect sense.
Notice that the player class now has only a single constructor and that constructor has three arguments.
The name health and Expwy of the player.
But in this example we're providing default parameter values for all the parameters for the player's
name.
The default is the string none and for health in XP the defaults are zero.
These default parameters are declared in the constructor declaration in the class is shown.
Now when we implement the constructor we can implement it exactly as we implemented the three argument
constructor in the previous videos.
Here you can see the implementation for the single constructor.
Notice that you don't supply the default parameters.
Here we can simply use initializer lists to initialize the class attributes and the compiler will take
care of providing the default values as needed.
This is very handy and results in less code to write which means less code to test which means less
code that could have errors.
Since this single constructor is doing the job of several constructors we have to be careful not to
declare ambiguous constructors.
For example what would happen if we implemented a no args constructor.
In addition to the one we see on this slide Well we get a compiler error because the compiler wouldn't
know which one to call.
In this example we're creating empty Frank and villaine objects as we did before.
But take a look at Hero.
We didn't have to args constructor in the previous version of the player class but we do in this version.
That's pretty cool.
Now let's modify our existing player class and the ID so you can see how this works.
Hi.
So I mean the ID and I mean the section 13 workspace in the default constructor parameters project.
And what we've got is the player class as we defined it in the last few videos where we've got our three
constructors and here we're using delegating constructors and down here where using an initializer constructor
initializer list right here on 9:32 what I want to do is I want to get rid of it.
I want to simplify this.
I want to get rid of some of these overloaded constructors and use default parameters instead as we
did with the slides.
So what I want to do is just get rid of all these constructors right here I just want to end up with
one single constructor and there it is player with three arguments and one I'd like to do is supply
some default parameter values for these.
Now you can't always do this when you're doing class design but sometimes you can and when you can you
should because it really simplifies your code.
So in this case I'm going to default the name of the player to none.
I'm going to default the health value to zero and I'm going to default the x p value to zero.
OK so that's what we've got now.
There is my three default parameters.
Now these two constructors go away so I'm just going to get rid of them right here and this constructor
was his which is are three are a constructor that matches the signature for this one.
We really don't have to do anything to it.
These default parameters will automatically be supplied by the compiler when we need them.
OK so now what we've got is same code we had before.
Now put a break point.
Here is the only constructor being called so we'll definitely see it being called and I'm going to create
an empty object here.
Again it's a player object and I'm not supplying any initialization information here.
So what's going to happen is all three of those default parameters will be substituted and I'll end
up with an object none zero zero which is exactly what I want.
In the case of Frank I'll end up with Frank 00 because the none will be overridden by the frank.
In the last one all three of my initialiser will still be supplied so it will be villaine 155.
Now there's another one that we've got here as well which is this one let's just say player hero.
And suppose I want to say this is hero and it's 100 for the health.
Now in this case that hero object will have the name Hero 100 for health since the XP wasn't supplied
the XP will get the value of 0.
Now this is a constructor we didn't have before we didn't have a two args constructor.
OK so let's run this and we'll walk through it.
And I'll put the screen over here the output is going to be real simple We'll just get this three args
constructor message being displayed all the time is the only constructor we have.
OK so let's start here.
Here's my player.
Empty right.
This is a no args constructor the set to be called.
Well we don't have no args constructor but we've got this constructor that expects three arguments and
we're telling the compiler to default those three if it has to in this case it has to.
So what it's going to do is it's going to provide none 0 0 and call this guy right here.
OK.
So let's step through this and we'll see.
We're in the constructor Now you can see that that constructor did indeed get called one line 20 right
now.
And we're going to initialize it when a display 3R is constructor over here.
And then we're back to Main at this point.
Empty should have none 0 0 which is exactly what we've got now in the case of the player.
Frank I expected to have frank 00.
So let's walk through that.
There I am at line 20 again.
I'll step through it a couple more times.
Now we'll see three args constructor again being displayed.
I'm back in my main and if I look at Frank here we see Frank 00 which is again what we expected.
Now the hero objects we expect to have here a 100 and 0.
So let's walk through that.
We're in that construct to right now we're in the initialization list and we'll print out the three
args constructor message one more time we're done initialising that object now.
So if we look at Hero we should see hero 100 0 which is again exactly what I expected.
Now in the last case I'm providing all three of the initializers.
So what we expect is villaine 155 right.
None of the default parameters here will be used.
So let's try that out.
We'll walk through it and we're back in Maine now and if we look at villaine we'll have villaine 155
just what we want.
OK.
So that gives you an idea of how we can use default constructor parameters which is really really handy.
It'll definitely simplify your code.
As I said before you can always use sometimes it really doesn't make sense to provide default parameter
values you really want you know the user to explicitly provide all of them but sometimes you can and
when you can they come real handy.
Now just before we wrap up this video let's see what happens if we supply a constructor and C++ has
an issue with ambiguity.
So in this case remember we've got we're handling all of these types of initialization here.
Right.
Zero argument one argument two arguments and three arguments all with a single constructor.
So what happens if I decide to do something like.
Player no args constructor and I implement that.
Well hopefully you'll see the problem when the compiler sees the code on 9:28 it doesn't know what to
do.
A could call this default constructor or it could call this overloaded constructor with the thread default
parameters.
It's not going to guess it's just going to give you a compiler error.
So let me debug this or build it and run it and you'll see the error.
You can see any case you get it you'll know what it's talking about.
It says right here error call of overloaded player is ambiguous which is exactly correct.